# MDN Product Advisory Board video meeting, June 2020

Attendees: Chris Mills (Mozilla, Chair), Daniel Appelquist (Samsung), Jory Burson (Microsoft), Reeza Ali (Microsoft), Kyle Pflug (Microsoft), Joe Medley (Google), Kadir Topal (Mozilla), Ali Spivak (Independent).

## Logistics
* Date/Time: July 20th 2020, 09.30 Pacific / 17.30 UK time / 18:30 Europe
* Location: Mozilla Zoom room 

## Agenda

* Meeting kick off
* Update on MDN subscriptions
* MDN Q3 goal walkthrough
* Walkthrough of early Yari (next gen MDN) editing process
* Web DNA update


## Meeting notes

### MDN subscriptions

* Implementation done
* But MDN has decided to pause the launch because of the current situation
  * Tone deaf due to people losing their jobs?
  * Also smaller point - membership/subscription implies you get something in return, whereas we are not really offering anything much in return. Might come off as weird
* Update soon but probably no launch this year
  * Reaction - the PAB felt really disappointed by this.
  * Surely given the current situation, we should be getting support for important properties like MDN
  * Could PAB make a recommendation on this to launch sooner?
  * Maybe a compromise could be to soft launch - make available but not trumpet?
  * Q - any discussion about MDN being defunded, or further cuts?
    * No, nothing has come up like this
  * Useful point - this sounds more like a messaging problem, and those can be solved
    * PAB totally up for trying to think up alternative messaging to get around the main issues this brings up

### MDN Q3 goals

[see spreadsheet for items covered](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/15RWGS1Mq6mUEToHAviLfMa0qpm0o7W9oleC7XufyDc0/edit#gid=1981586940)

### Yari demonstration

Chris gave a demo of the Yari prototype (see https://github.com/mdn/yari).
 
Creating new pages? Working on tools to make creating pages easier.

Joe already using MDN linter internally on contributor work, with some good results.
At the moment, roughly converting to HTML and then manually uploading, but looking forward to the days of submitting PRs. Joe is anxious to get to the new system - trickle of chrome contributors, and hopes the new system will turn it into a flood.

L10n is a big thing for us to discuss, very expensive, none of our competitors offer localized content. Good time to take a holistic look at it, how we want to solve this problem in the new system.

Reeza UI suggestion — Make the delete button less prominent to avoid accidental deletion of pages. Consider moving off to the side somewhere.

Joe: a lot of UI will probably be useful with offering people help on what to do. Get them to do things correctly as early as possible. Opportunity to guide them well, so first PR is as good as it can possibly be.

Reeza: To build onto what Joe says, there's good motivation to get to Markdown asap, as it is easier to work with than HTML editing. This can potentially broaden the amount of folks that contribute to the content by removing the need for knowledge about HTML/JS/CSS.

Not sure what UI we will have yet.

A lot of editing will probably happen in the GitHub repo
We are working on an online preview of your changes.


### Web DNA update

Kickoff supposed to be starting now, slightly delayed due to onboarding process for contributing vendors. Kadir to update folks once we have a new kickoff date. But no other problems anticipated. Plan to be pushed back by about 3 weeks.

### Action items

* Chris to lead triage of existing action items.
* Work out process for voting on controversial items


## Next meeting

Video call — August 
